Title: Getting dlvr.it to work with Pelican generated website
Date: 2018-06-28 14:00
Tags: Blogging, Product Reviews

Back when I worked for [iCER](http:/icer.msu.edi) I had my blog set up to automatically Tweet when I posted something new using a service called Twitter Feed. Unfortunately, Twitter Feed is no longer around and their website recommended [dlvr.it](http://dlvr.it) as an alternative.  

So far it was fairly strait forward to set up an account and I followed the menus to connect my [Pelican](http://docs.getpelican.com/en/3.6.3/) RSS feed to my [Titter](https://twitter.com/colbrydi) account. At first it didn't seem to do anything but then I noticed a message that said something like "Last checked 56 seconds ago" and I went back to my Twitter account and all of my blog posts had been tweeted.  Which is what I wanted so Yeah!

However, there were a lot of options that I didn't understand.  For example, I thought it would only tweet the latest blog post.  It didn't, it tweeted them all. Which is fine, this is where I wanted to go but I was hoping to test it first before blasting all of my twitter followers (I do not think I have many).  

The second problem was that it only tweeted the title and the URL which is not very detailed. I don't want to everyone to be required to go to my blog post.  I found an option to also include the body of the post.  We will see if that does anything.  

I plan to use this post as a test.

**Dirk**

**Update 1:** There was a setting in dlvr.it that I turned on to "Post Body".  This let more come though the twitter feed and nicely includes an image.  This makes the behavior act as expected so I am really excited.  Oddly, this particular post is not seen on Twitter.  This is because I went over the 10 post limit on dlvr.it.   I am going to change the post date to today and see if that helps things out.

**Update 2:** Changing the date in the post didn't seem to trigger dlvr.it to post this message on twitter. I am now changing the filename inside of pelican to see if that changes the RSS feed enough to make dlvr.it think this is a new post.  

**Update 3:** Changing the pelican filename didn't do anything either. I looked though the RSS feed and now I think maybe changing the post title will make a difference.
